---
title: "Aeroelastic Characteristics Analysis of Helicopter Rotors Based on CFD/CSD Coupling Method"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2013-09-01-paper-7
excerpt: 'Please see English abstract for detailed information.'
date: 2013-09-01
venue: 'Second Annual Forum of the Asian/Australian Rotorcraft Forum (ARF2) and the Fourth International Basic Research Conference on Rotorcraft Technology (IBRCRT4)'
paperurl: 
citation: 'Wang J., Zhao Q., Xiao Y., &quot;Aeroelastic Characteristics Analysis of Helicopter Rotors Based on CFD/CSD Coupling Method&quot;, <i>ARF2 & IBRCRT4</i>, Tianjin, China, September 8-11, 2013.'
---
<!--[Download paper here]()-->

Abstract
--------
Aeroelastic analysis of helicopter rotors is a challenging multidisciplinary problem. For accurate aeroelastic characteristics analysis, the unsteady rotor flowfield is solved by Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) module based on N-S/Euler equations and overset grid, while Computational Structural Dynamics (CSD) module is introduced to handle blade flexibility. In the CFD module, dual time-stepping algorithm is employed in temporal discretization with 4-stage Runge-Kutta scheme applied at each physical step, Jameson’s second-order cell-centered scheme is adopted in spatial discretization and B-L turbulent model is used to simulate the viscous effect in the vicinity of blade with minimized computational cost. The CSD module is developed based on Hamilton’s variational principles and modified to obtain advanced blade-tip analysis ability by deriving the finite element equations for multiple tip elements and integrating into the original code. Grid deformation is implemented using algebraic method through coordinate transformations to achieve deflections with high quality and efficiency. A loose CFD/CSD coupling strategy is developed to transfer information between fluid and structure. The CFD module is validated by analyzing the flowfield of 7A rotor while the CSD module is checked through calculating the natural frequencies of Maryland rotating beam. The advantage of advanced blade-tip modification is demonstrated through calculating the dynamics characteristics of UH-60A rotor. Then loose coupling is established and adopted in SA349/2 and UH-60A rotor airloads prediction and the calculated results are compared with test data. Finally, conclusions about rotor aeroelastic characteristics (such as natural frequencies, swept angle variations, airloads and vorticity) are drawn, which are important to high-fidelity airloads prediction and further aeroelastic analysis.