---
title: "Rotor Airloads Prediction and Effect Analysis of Blade Structural Parameters Based on CFD/CSD Method"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2013-08-01-paper-8
excerpt: 'Please see English abstract for detailed information.'
date: 2013-08-01
venue: 'Twenty-Ninth Chinese Rotorcraft Forum (CRF29)'
paperurl: 
citation: 'Wang J., Zhao Q., Xiao Y., &quot;Rotor Airloads Prediction and Effect Analysis of Blade Structural Parameters Based on CFD/CSD Method&quot;, <i>CRF29</i>, Jingdezhen, China, August 14-16, 2013.'
---
<!--[Download paper here]()-->

Abstract
--------
In order to enhance the fidelity of rotor airloads prediction, blade elastic deformations are introduced into CFD method, and a CFD/CSD loose coupling method are developed for rotor aeroelastic analysis. The rotor flowfield is solved by using a CFD module based on N-S/Euler equations and overset grid technology. Dual time-stepping algorithm is used for temporal discretization, Jameson’s second order cell-centered scheme is adopted to calculate flux and B-L turbulent model is employed to reduce computational cost. The CSD module is established based on moderate deformed beam theory as well as Hamilton’s variational principles. The blade body-fitted grid is deformed by an algebraic deformation module to achieve efficient deformation. Then, a loose coupling method is accomplished to exchange fluid-structure information. The CSD module is validated through analyzing the blade resonance frequency of the ADM rotor while the CFD module is tested by computing the pressure distributions on blades of rigid SA349/2 rotor containing measured flap motions. Based on aforementioned work, the aeroelastic airloads on the SA349/2 rotor blade are calculated and compared with flight test data, then, the influences of blade structural parameters, such as torsional stiffness, are investigated. Finally, the CFD/CSD calculated results are compared with rigid CFD calculated results so that the validity of the method developed in this paper is proven and some conclusions are obtained.