---
title: "Calculations on Aeroelastic Loads of Rotor with Advanced Blade-tip Based on CFD/CSD Coupling Method"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2014-09-01-paper-3
excerpt: 'Please see English abstract for detailed information.'
date: 2014-09-01
venue: 'Acta Aeronautica et Astronautica Sinica'
paperurl: ''
citation: 'Wang J., Zhao Q., Xiao Y., &quot;Calculations on Aeroelastic Loads of Rotor with Advanced Blade-tip Based on CFD/CSD Coupling Method&quot;, <i>Acta Aeronautica et Astronautica Sinica</i>, vol.35, no.9, p.2426-2437, 2014.'
---
doi:10.7527/S1000-6893.2013.0519  
[Download paper here](http://hkxb.buaa.edu.cn/CN/10.7527/S1000-6893.2013.0519)

Abstract
--------
Computational structural dynamics (CSD) is introduced into rigid rotor computational fluid dynamics (CFD) to enhance the accuracy of the unsteady aeroelastic load analysis of a rotor，and a CFD/CSD coupling method suitable for the aeroelastic analysis of a rotor with an advanced blade-tip is developed.The Navier-Stokes/Euler equations are adopted as the governing equations，and moving-embedded grids are generated around the rotor in forward flight. In the flowfield analysis，a dual time-stepping algorithm is employed in temporal discretization，while Jameson’s central scheme is adopted in spatial discretization and a B-L (Baldwin-Lomax) turbulence model is included. The blade motion analysis is conducted based on Hamilton’s variational principle and moderate deflection beam theory，and a new beam element method with an arbitrary junction angle is established to improve the accuracy of dynamics analysis on the rotor with an advanced blade-tip. The blade grid is deformed using algebraic transformation strategy，and a CFD/CSD loose coupling method is developed with blade motions and rotor airloads being transfered through the fluid-structure interface. The CSD and CFD modules are validated respectively，and the aeroelastic loads on a UH-60A rotor in high speed forward flight condition are calculated and compared with test data. Then，parametric investigations are caried out with emphasis on blade-tip shapes. The calculated results indicate that the present CFD/CSD method is able to improve the prediction accuracy of unsteady aeroelastic loads on the rotor as compared with the lifting-line method and rigid rotor CFD method，and the aeroelastic coupling effect of the rotor with the advanced blade-tip can be analyzed more precisely. Meanwhile，it is shown that a swept blade-tip shape can reduce the strength of shock at the advancing side between 30° and 90° azimuth angles，resulting in improved aerodynamic characteristics of the rotor.