---
title: "Structural Parameter Analyses on Rotor Airloads with New Type Blade-Tip Based on CFD/CSD Coupling Method"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2016-12-01-paper-1
excerpt: 'Please see English abstract for detailed information.'
date: 2016-12-01
venue: 'Trans. Nanjing Univ. Aero. Astro.'
paperurl: ''
citation: 'Wang J., Zhao Q., Ma L., &quot;Structural Parameter Analyses on Rotor Airloads with New Type Blade-Tip Based on CFD/CSD Coupling Method&quot;, <i>Trans. Nanjing Univ. Aero. Astro.</i>, vol.33, no.6, p.678-686, 2016.'
---
doi:10.16356/j.1005-1120.2016.06.678  
[Download paper here](http://www.cnki.net/kcms/doi/10.16356/j.1005-1120.2016.06.678.html)

Abstract
--------
For acurate aeroelastic analysis，the unsteady rotor flowfield is solved by computational fluid dynamics (CFD) module based on RANS/Euler equations and moving-embedded grid system，while computational structural dynamics (CSD) module is introduced to handle blade flexibility. In CFD module，dual time-stepping algorithm is employed in temporal discretization，Jameson two-order central diference (JST) scheme is adopted in spatial discretization and B-L turbulent model is used to ilustrate the viscous efect. The CSD module is developed based on Hamilton′s variational principles and moderate deflection beam theory. Grid deformation is implemented using algebraic method through coordinate transformations to achieve deflections with high quality and eficiency. A CFD/CSD loose coupling strategy is developed to transfer information betwen rotor flowfield and blade structure. The CFD and the CSD modules are verified seperately. Then the CFD/CSD loose coupling is adopted in airloads prediction of UH-60A rotor under high sped forward flight condition. The calculated results agree well with test data. Finaly，efects of torsional stiffness properties on airloads of rotors with diferent tip swept angles (from 10° forward to 30° backward) are investigated. The results are evaluated through presure distribution and airloads variation，and some meaningful conclusions are drawn the moderated shock wave strength and presure gradient caused
by varied tip swept angle and structural properties.